# Sergey Lastochkin: Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

This is Coursera Johns Hopkins University data science course project in "Getting and Cleaning Data" course.

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.

## The repo contains:
* run_analysys.R - script that downloads, reads and manipulates data through course project task
* tidy_data.txt - the final dataset generated by `run_analysus.R`
* README.md - text file contains basic information about this repository
* CodeBook.md - text file explains variables and interaction of code in `run_analysus.R`

## Project task:
One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Here are the data for the project:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following.

  1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
  2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
  3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
  4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
  5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Good luck!

## Versions
All code developed and tested on:

* OS: Windows 7
* R: 3.5.2
* R Package `dplyr`: 0.7.8
* R Package `stringr`: 1.3.1
